[Music]
So before we get into the NAM wrap-up episode, we have an apology you would like to make to
our listeners. At the end of the last episode, we mentioned that the next episode would be
an interview with noise engineering. We did do a noise engineering interview,
and it was great. It was fantastic. However, due to some technical difficulties,
the audio for that interview turned out to be complete shit. The laptop we were recording on
crapped itself, so we switched to plan B and we tried to record everything through a portable
recorder. The interview was done via Skype, so we were trying to record us asking them questions
and their answers through the speakers, through the portable recording device.
Unfortunately, it just turned out way too poor quality to release. We really appreciate
Stephen and Chris taking the time to answer our questions and just hanging out with us for a while.
But yeah, if you're wondering why you don't hear us mentioning noise engineering modules,
and there's quite a few good ones that did come out, or at least was announced at NAM,
in this wrap-up episode, that is why, because we had planned on dedicating an entire episode to that.
[Music]
So, it's a NAM, 2018. It's wrapped up. It's done. The year of the semi-modular.
Lots of semi-modular. Or how I stopped worrying and learned to love the wavetable asks.
You picked the title. I'm one with the other. You just put a semicolon between like this.
Just keep going forever. That entire thing or? Yeah, yeah, like the Dr. Strangelove style.
There were a lot of monos. I think first off the bat was the manther. We were all curious to see
what Milleco's been cooking up for a while. Manther being, what is it like 2600-based or
something? Or am I wrong on that? Are 2600-ish? They have their own shit all over it.
I took notes. Oh, he did. Yeah, because I was excited about it.
I will say I was happy to see the BFF right behind it. Although there were no samples of that,
I was like, cool. Because that's the interesting one to me. Yeah, I don't think that was functional.
This is creepy, but it was on, you know, we're friends with Ben Davis on Facebook.
And he was like, go back from now. And I saw Scott Yeager posted like, all right, BFF time.
So nice. That's well. Maybe they're just best friends. Yeah, maybe they're just best friends.
Still no sight or sound of Mr. D, but at least we know the BFF is in progress right behind it.
But yeah, I took some technical notes on it. Ooh. Because I didn't know I was in the market
for a monosynth until I saw this thing at name. And now I'm kind of sold.
Milico posted it all on the website. So it's got a SIM 3340 voice chip.
Same is found in the 101. Yep. And the two. Nice. So that made me happy right off the bat.
Because that was immediately what I thought of when I was watching this video. I was like,
there's a lot of stuff out there right now that is trying to tap into the 101 territory. I was
like, but none of them have got me as excited as this thing did in like a five minute demo video.
Because it's got like the form factor. It kind of had the sound. You know, the filter isn't very
101ish, but it still sounds good. You know, and just everything looks immediate on it. I was like,
this thing looks like somebody shot a 101 into space, had it circumvented by fucking aliens
and shot it back down the earth. And I was like, so what the fuck is in this thing?
But for the filter, it's running a CEM or I'm sorry, SSM 2044, which is found in the Monopoly
in the Poly six. It's in a bunch of other stuff too, but nothing I was too familiar with.
That's a I love that filter. Luke actually made a DIY version of that and I had a module of it
for a while. It was just PCB panel. Nice. And man, it sounded really good. Awesome. Actually,
I'm going to try to get that. I mean, the demo sounded good, you know, like I was analyzing it.
I was like, okay, doesn't sound like a mini brute. You know, it's definitely not like a Parker
Steiner vibe, but it's also not like 101ish, but it did have like a really nice sound. That's
the two main chips in it. And then you got all the sequencer functions from the Veriget A+ and the
four plus embedded in there. That's cool. Parameter recording on everything. It's got a built in delay.
I couldn't find any details on what the delay is. I don't know if it's analog, digital or one
of their pedals, maybe. Yeah, they definitely have a few on me. It sounded good. It's a nice touch.
That's the only effect, I believe, that's on it. It's a delay, you know, it definitely added flavor
in the demos that they were giving us. I was like, okay, I can appreciate that for sure.
Yeah, we'll save all the mono synths that seem like they came out. First, I just lumped that one
out and was like, oh, these stupid mono synths. But that's the one I think after watching demo
videos that you kind of after triangulating the sound through various kind of halfway there
videos, I'm like, that one is the most promised, I think. Yeah, all the mono synths seem to have
like, you know, semi modular capabilities. But this one seems to have the best modular capabilities.
It might be at least ones that are most interesting to me. I like the layout to the way they have
the 16 step keyboard, 16 step, you know, sequencer and then the little keyboard keys after it.
Yeah. That's like, I wish everything was kind of like that. Yeah, it's 16 keys, but I believe it's a
64 step pattern that you can do that. The suggested retail is going to be 650. That's not bad. Yeah,
that's cool. Not terrible. You know, it's more than the mini brute S2 or 2S rather. I don't know,
the mini boots look pretty good too, but this just is more appealing to me. You know, the mini
brute seems good if you want to do a very traditional synth thing. You know, this thing looks like you
get a little more freaky with it. I do have notes about the mini, mini brute S2, and most of them are
glowing. Take it away. Yeah, go for it. So, I mean, just the idea of skipping the keys all together
and going with the sequencer and pads, I think it's brilliant because not everyone plays with
keys. And the patch bay, I thought, everything looks brilliantly laid out. Yeah, I think you can
see the everything like the metalizer or all that jazz. Some odd normalizations on it, I'll say.
Like they have AD going to the VCA and ADSR going to the filter by default. You think it would be
flipped? I don't know what the logic was. Yeah, I don't either. Yeah, a lot of patch points though.
Yeah, 40 or something. And even the rack brute, the weird sort of like thing with the rack behind
it, at first I was like, "Ah, that seems like a gimmick. That seems kind of dumb." But the more I
saw it, and especially with it collapsed, I sort of warmed up to it. If you're interested in, you know,
sort of like dipping a toe in the modular, this seems like a great way to sort of get in on that.
And I thought it sounded great. A lot of videos did sound like shit. But I think that's just the
nature of synths shows and even the archery one on their site. It's like, like, "Oh, I'm going to be
the keyboardist in a band." And like, they're just playing like really, really mundane shit.
But then there was a couple of other videos where like someone's like really tinkering with it.
And they were getting some decent sounds out of it. Yeah, that video on their website was kind of
hard to judge because there was a lot going on. Like there's this girl singing. And he has like
another keyboard going underneath it. And there was all the other elements. I'm like, "Okay, I just
want to hear this thing. I don't need a video trying to get me to visualize myself as a rock star
in a band. Like just show me what this thing can do." But yeah, the videos that I did check out that
were just like demos at NAMM, they sounded fairly good. It's got two oscillators this time, which is
nice. It's got all the stuff. I believe it has the R-Pengen and all the sequencer features, which
if I remember correctly, you can have three different layers going on, which is pretty cool.
Really? Yeah. I don't know how that works. But it's a monosynth, but you can have three
separate layers, I think, going simultaneously on the sequencer. Yeah, it sounded good. And I
agree that RAC RUD, I think, is genius on their part. You know what I mean? Obviously the theme
right now is make shit integratable. Modules are compatible. A lot of people are doing that slowly
Arteria. This isn't the first time they've done the patch bay. That was a good first step. Seems like
a lot of other people are following suit. And now all of a sudden they're like, "We're going to sell
you our own RAC. You can expand upon our synths and act as a gateway into the modular world for
people that don't already have a case." I think that's genius. Yeah, because now you can go to
Guitar Center, get a keyboard you can play, and the little RAC thing that integrates right with it,
and you're ready to start the addiction and order stuff. Attaches right to it. Yeah.
Makes me wonder if they're actually going to maybe offer a module soon. You know what I mean?
That seems like a logical next step. You've supplied the Gillette model, and now I can start
selling some razors. Yeah, because they could just even the Steiner and Filter. Yeah, they'll say
stuff like that. Totally buy a Steiner Parker Filter for them. Sounds good. And with a
CVable brute force function, you know? I would buy it for the right price. Just say.
A little bit of quantum. That's been teased before, but now they're like,
should be out in a few months. Did you see how much is going to cost? Oh, yeah. Five grand.
I have my two super pricey things that I really like from NAMM, that I would, if I had infinite
infinite money. Waldorf Quantum, Eventide H9000. Both fucking stellar. Both together would probably
be around $12,000. That's crazy. Yeah, it is. Even though I knew I couldn't afford, I didn't
watch the videos for their quantum. I love Waldorf, man. I mean, there's always, I'm sure there's
something wrong with it, but it's actually working. It looks great. The specs look great.
I'll never own it, but it's lost. Oh, that looks great. I just hope, oh, please just do a smaller
one that's cheaper. You know? Like a pared-down, blow-filed style thing with some new shit in it.
I'd be all over it. They did have another keyboard that they debuted there.
Oh, the string strength. The vocoder. That was kind of cool too. Not up my alley.
Right. I actually had a very strikingly different response to that. It's the STVC.
It's the string and vocoder. I listened to a bunch of videos and I kept coming back to it.
I imagined myself walking past a piano store in the mall in the 80s, and that was the sound that
was coming out. Yeah. And it was not in a good way. It was really, I was really underwhelmed by it,
and sounds goofy. And then when someone starts singing into the vocoder, it seemed like a joke
at some point. I think that thing is going to sell like hotcakes. Oh, definitely. In the synth
wave scene. Oh, absolutely. Oh, definitely. Absolutely. Yeah, there was more, more monosyns.
We had radical delta C-E-P-A and the new boom stars from Studio Electronics.
They're doing like Mark IIs of these, I believe. Oh, I didn't get that. I mean, there wasn't much
coverage on them. But yeah, they're like, they have wood panels on the sides now. Yeah. That's
new. And they're like twice as much as those other ones were. Just for the wood panel.
That's when people were joking about online. They're like, I would love to upgrade my current one,
but why is it almost twice to price? Is it just because of the wood panels?
But are they supposed to be new features? I mean, all kidding aside about the wood panels.
And you see much about the features themselves or even what they were modeled on. It was a real
brief blurb I found online just showing a screenshot of a couple of them and suggested
price and things like that. We would probably dig it up. Were they actually there? Because I
don't remember seeing any videos of anyone stopping at the booth and talking to them.
I don't know. I found it on Matrix synth. It was from them, but maybe it was just like an
announcement type thing. Maybe there weren't any demos or any. Gotcha. Gotcha. That radical one.
That's the, like the huge voice, but it's in Euro-Rach form. It's in both. They have it as a module
or a semi-module standalone monosome. I didn't see the standalone, but I saw a
bunch of videos of the Euro-Rach version. It's not really for me because I'm not looking for a
giant full voice. Full voice like that. But they were getting good sounds out of it. It sounded good.
Yeah. Even the Sonic State guy was like, "This is a fat sounding soon." It definitely had a good tone
to it, but yeah, not really my thing. I have here marked under my underwhelming section
have DSI profit revision two, which is another yearly profit revision. I think we've gotten one
every year now for like the last eight years. Yeah, I've lost. I don't even know what their
product line is anymore. They didn't even talk anything new. It's like, okay, another profit revision.
Bit underwhelming. Dave, I think you have some words about this one. The Yudou Newman
touch screen synthesizing. Oh, shit. I heard you were really excited about this one. I was super excited
for it. You watched the entire video. I could only get through five seconds. Yeah, same here.
You watched the whole thing? No, no. I could only get through like five seconds. So what you guys
didn't actually hear the sound of it? I skipped forward and heard like one piano sound and I just
closed it. I think watching the video really helped because there's so much build-up and there's so
much talking and there's so much, it's a huge touch screen. There's all kinds of controls,
everything sort of flashing and then to have that build-up, that anticipation and then he presses
on those keys and it is a fucking piano. I was just like, you know what? Good for you, man. I feel
like you might be fucking with me. Like, good job. You got me to watch your fucking video. It was a
calamity. It's really a truly remarkable calamity. I saw it and was like, this is truly the worst
of all worlds. It's not worse than a laptop. I'd rather just have a window. I don't know.
So it's inconvenient on every level. It's probably going to cost a million dollars
and it kind of looks fragile. So it's going to break almost immediately. Yeah, that screen's going
to get shattered immediately. It's not really a glass. The minute someone drops their quarter-inch
cable trying to plug it in and things just spider webs across the whole screen, it's just a constant
piano drone. Yeah, I mean, it's essentially a giant iPad attached to a keyboard at like five times
to praise. Yeah, and only does that. Yeah. So it props to you for getting through the entire video.
Yeah, thanks. Took one for the team there. Yes. Stepped into the plate. I have here the
Alisis Vortex. What? Yeah. A brand new innovative midi-ketar. Oh, shit. Yeah. I have one note for that.
Yeah. Okay. It just is fuck off. I'm glad I'm not the only one to cut it, dude. Like,
I'm digging through all the stuff looking for, you know, did I miss anything important? Then I was
like, the fuck did I just scroll past the keytar? I was like, okay, I'll give it a shot and open it.
It's not even a keytar. It's just a fucking controller. Yeah, just a controller. Like,
doesn't this exist in like a million different formats already? Like, who the hell still uses them?
Like a keytar mini controller, but this one has like eight pads on it. Yeah. And a slider. Oh,
so innovative. How much? A one that I was kind of a on was the Volca mixer. It was like so close.
I missed that. They're so far away. There's a lot of problems with that. Yeah. I mean,
first off, it claims to be four channels, but it's actually not. Three. It's two mono and one
stereo. Oh, so they did that? Yeah. Also, it's not battery powered. You have to plug it in.
Every all the other Volca's are battery powered. This is going to be the first one that doesn't
run off of batteries. Makes sense. Fucking mix. All right. There's the speakers. It might be
the speakers because for some fucking reason, they decided to waste real estate to put fucking
speakers on it. You know what you could also do? Just have a little jack on the side of it and
then sell a little fucking speaker. You know, just plug your speaker into this thing. And then for
90% of the people who don't want speakers don't want to fucking deal with it. You could even make
the speakers the size of the little Volca form factor. Yeah. This is I think it's just a miss
across the fucking board. Whereas, you know, everybody wants like everyone's looking for the
$200 mixer you can use play live set with. Yeah. Everybody kind of gets to it and then they
fuck it up. I feel like they just fucked it up. Yeah. Because this like if they would have done
this right, this could have been a mixer that people even who weren't using it for Volca's
could have used. Now I can't imagine someone with Volca's using it, let alone someone who
doesn't have those. Yeah. I have one more on my underwhelming list. Oh yeah. New and Terra's Auto
Tune. Oh, I was that I didn't even see that. Yeah. It's basically a reskin of Auto Tune 5.
That's it. Oh, is it like a graphic of key pain though? No, no. It allows you to access
Auto Tune 5 mode, which a lot of people liked more than the other versions. So now you can upgrade
for $500 to go back to go back. Yeah. Holy shit. Two steps forward one step back, right?
I'm looking on gear slots always where like, yes, finally I can get the sound back from Auto
Tune 5. Just fucking install Auto Tune 5. I mean, it had like one or two extra things that it
mentioned, but it wasn't anything crazy. Like they got a milkit right now though, because every
fucking trap song that exists right now is an open tuned fuck. Yeah. And now you can get that
classic sound back. Yeah, the classic Auto Tune 5. I found a toy in, I can't remember where I was
like target or something. It was a little little microphone like toy. You know what I mean? It had
his image on it and it said the T-Pain microphone sing like a pro. Dude, did it have Auto Tune 5 on
it? Where people go nuts? You pushed a button and it was just his voice all auto tuned. It said
seeing like a pro. I was just like, got to buy this. It's really meta. You're going to buy a
microphone, but all that you do is play him saying you should sing like a pro. Yeah, buy this
micro. Wait, what? That was it on my, the bad list. Yeah, mine says digi-meh underneath the
vocal mixer, but I don't know how much I want to go into that. We can. Yeah, I'm not allowed yet.
So the digi tone. So which videos did you see? Did you see the ones with Simon?
I saw the one with Chank. I saw the ridiculous one with him like with data line playing with
Koi Fish and walking around in a garden. Yeah, that was that was very inspiring. I instantly
pre-ordered three of them. Inauspicious starts. That was like the first video I think. That was
like the teaser and it's going downhill from there. Yeah, I don't it's as Greg very eloquently said,
it's like it's like it's a preset synth, but it's not a preset synth that are like fixed,
you know, there are ratios and frequencies that sound good that they want you to use.
And a lot of the point of FM is yeah, you might get to a point where it's phased out and you hear
nothing, but you can completely experiment with it. You start to understand how an operator works,
you start to build things that have like very weird areas that are in between certain frequencies
that someone might want you to use. But they were so proud of removing that from the user.
Okay, fine. There should be some presets that get you started, but to remove the editing capabilities
that make an FM synth so attractive and allows you to get a sound that's pretty unique and
dial into what you're trying to do that comes from understanding what it's doing or not understanding
what it's doing and just sit there for a while and fucking play with it and go,
Oh shit, I came across something that sounds good. Save that. Yeah, and especially in 2018,
are you going to tell me that you can't do an advanced mode where the knobs now just scan through
all the regular values instead of some array of the safe values you want people to use?
Did you read the John Chowning interview on the electron site? No, that was interesting. It was
him talking about just him, you know, discovering FM, not inventing it. And he even like, you could
tell he tried to like compliment them. He's like, Oh, you've made this in a way that's very different
and easy to use. Like, we'll see, we'll see how it proves itself out. Like, I think that
Digitact is obviously doing what it's doing right now because, you know, for better or worse,
generally kind of worse because of the way they've decided to treat it as an instrument. So we'll
see if they're new, small things kind of hold up over time. I'm a little skeptical right now.
Yeah, I wasn't too hyped on it. Like, I don't see why they couldn't have integrated that into,
you know, like the Digitact. We had that conversation via email, like, you were kind of for the fact
that it's its own thing. I could see that, but like me, I looked at it and I just kind of thought,
like, this could be a mono machine Mark three. You know what I mean? It's funny because after
we had that email thing, I thought about it for a while. And then the next day I was like,
why couldn't they just have made something that was a little less specific and be like, we're
going to make this kind of platform. It's very simple that will allow you to have some modes
charge me like 50 bucks for the FM mode or something like that. I'm on board if you can do it right
in a way that doesn't suck. Yeah. So I kind of went back, I like single purpose things, but I
think especially if you're going to dupe an interface very closely like that and maybe step back and
think about how you could repurpose something. Yeah. And I feel too, like I fucking love the
analog rhythm from electrons, my favorite drum machine ever. And I've learned a little now with
having the Digitact that there's a certain depth that it doesn't have in the Digitact that I really
like in the rhythm. I like that there are a bevy of different options. I don't know if I like
their paired down equipment that much. Yeah. It's just give me that depth that I want to do
designer, give me the flexibility to have that depth be in other things like the multi-outs or
with some other like forward thinking stuff and maybe just let us load one FM voice into the Digitact
or like I guess. It seemed like it was really well received. I mean, as far as like the videos
and the hype and I mean, it's probably going to sell well. Yeah. People seem really high. I mean,
people already buying it. Yeah. It sold out instantly for the run that they made, but
how much of that is this going to be like people jumping on the hype train, you know, like look
how many Digitact are up for sale right now. You know, now that the honeymoon and
face is worn off of that, you know, and people are going to get bored with this thing in three
months. I have to assume that it won't even take that long, but the Digitact that I feel like the
from beginning to boredom is it's a pretty short walk. Yeah. I think they may have a real problem.
If people keep buying their stuff and realizing there's no legs on them anymore,
they might be doing well with sales now and they're getting a lot of like hype people
buying them. But if the secondary market blows up with this shit, people are going to notice.
People are going to notice that this stuff gets unloaded. Maybe there's something
there's something not so great about them. Yeah, I'd honestly rather have a Volca FM. If I wanted
something like that, I would just parameter log it with the Digitact or something else.
The Volca even has parameter logging. True. Yeah. All the Volca's do.
And that seems to be the biggest things people are saying. Well, no, the four operator and,
you know, presets into saying, aren't that innovative, but you're getting the electron
sequencer, which takes to a whole different level that you can't get with other stuff. And it's like,
well, if you already owned something like the Digitact, you could just do that to a different
FM box with more features. You know what I mean? Yeah. But they tried to call out like, oh,
we have different waveforms. And it's like, sort of the TX81Z, you know, this is nothing.
It's nothing new. Yeah. Digitme. Are we still on? I'm out of me. Yeah, I don't think I've any
mail that. That's it for my math. No, wait, I did have, well, well, huh? Yeah. Honestly,
I don't even know what it's worth talking about, but the Sonic where ELZ1, it looks like an OP1 rip-off.
Oh, yeah. I remember seeing that and thinking that whatever that is, it looks like an OP1 rip-off.
Actually, all the comments in the YouTube video were basically, wait, is this another
teenage engineering thing? I was like, no. But the sound of it was incredibly boring.
Like, it was almost like decidedly like lo-fi, like not eight, not full on 8-bit, but it was very
like raw and like not in an interesting sort of like, teethy way. It just sounded like a toy.
A very expensive and like well over designed toy. Teenage engineering didn't announce anything
except for the two new little pocket operators. Pocket operators, yeah. It just seems so silly.
Yeah. I have one. I like never use it. But like, anytime I'm like actually working on something,
like it's, I'm not going to go to this little toy usually like I'll go towards a bigger,
more robust actual drum machine or the much more, you know what I mean?
[Music]
We circling back to the good? Well, we circling back to Euro because I feel there's a number of
things to talk about in Euro. One thing that I did want to bring up was the Geiger Counter Pro.
It's only a fucking pedal. There's got to be a module follow up with that. I presume I would hope
because yeah, I thought the same thing. I got super excited and then I read it. I was just a pedal.
Do you know what the big features are of the two? Like what the differences are versus one?
I didn't look at specs or anything. There were more controls. There's more controls way more
waves now and I think higher quality sound overall. I don't think it's limited to eight bit anymore.
I think they touched up the preamp a bit. Yeah, I don't know. Like I glanced at it, but I was like,
well, until this is in module format, I'm looking to pay it too much mind. But I'm surprised it
didn't announce like, yeah, like you said, like why wait? Like why not? And release them both at
same time. Kind of weird, but the fuck were we talking about? Euro announced in man.
Erika since fucking killing it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Everything they announced, I was like,
I want that. I want that. Like even the basic 909, you know, there's already a bunch of modules
that do 909 drum sounds, but for some reason, they look nice. They sounded good. Very to the point.
I have CV control on like some of the tip top ones. You know, they sounded pretty good. I think
you were hyped up the most about the graphic VCO. The graphic VCO. It's coming out in February,
towards the end of February, allegedly, it's supposed to be his birthday. So it's going to be like
the first one out then from the whole new lineup. Yeah. Well, it's also, I think the one that was
announced the longest ago. It's actually been announced like well over a year ago. I thought
it was out. Yeah, I guess we've been working out this whole time. Yeah. Like everything sounded
great that they were going through. All of this sort of like post morph effects. Yeah, it sounded
good as hell. I liked it. It appealed to me, but at the same time, I'm like, man, there's a lot of
good wavetable options out there. There are now like it's really hard to pick. Like you got the
352, you got that. The piss and Hana Mark III was announced. Like there's a lot of good stuff out
there as far as wavetable since go. But like I like the look of that too. And it goes well with
the other new stuff that they announced that I kind of want, you know, like the sequencer is
huge. The drum computer. Yeah. Yeah. Man, it's a little fun. The crazy buttons. Yeah. Yeah. I
love the fact that like there are buttons, not everything's behind a menu. Yeah.
They're like the nine or nine buttons too. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Like little mechanical
with the lights on. I was like, that's a nice touch to pair up with your 909
Erica drum modules, you know, and like, I think it's 48 HP. Like it's yeah,
fucking gigantic, but it has like 16. Yeah, the entire top is just filled with fucking outs. Like
it is your, you can control every channel. Every channel has a trigger and an accent. Plus,
there is I think one CV and gate channel. So you can do notes with it as well. It's like an LFO out
to one or two. I think so. Yeah, there's like a modulation output. It has instant pattern changing.
It has that's nice. What the hell else did it have? Probability per step. Probability per step.
Direction per track.
Their demos were just great. Yeah. Like the new what the hell they were talking about. They
looked like they were having fun playing with it. They jammed out a bunch. I think they're taking
Erica since the next level with this new batch of stuff. Yeah, the resonant EQ. Oh, that looks
fucking great. It's insane. Like that was awesome. Digital control over pretty much every band.
Every band. Yeah. Get the fuck out. I want to hear more demos of how it sounds. You know what I mean?
But like functionality wise and just how it looks, the GUI and everything. Like this looks
fantastic. You know, like I've been asking for a CV controllable resonant, you know, EQ for a while.
I just feel like they know what the fuck they're doing as a company too. Like they have
kind of their vision. They make their products. They're always very solid. They're rarely like
derivative. It's always some new twist on stuff. And they have black panels. Yeah. It's always like,
oh, you guys just seem to like just be killing it. And even too, like, I mean, they have the big
stuff. But also the Pico series. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. The Pico's, the Black series,
yeah. They're kind of noise rig. They made that's too based. They have a very diverse like catalog.
Yeah. Stuff. They announced the black hole DSP version too, also, which I kind of want like,
I didn't own the version one, but I do have the Pico DSPs, which is like, you know, the junior version
of it. Yeah. And it's left me wanting more to accompany them, not as a replacement to the Pico's.
Like, I like them. I like them. Yeah. I like how they're small, but I'd also like one bigger too,
for when I need to do more complex processing. Yeah. And it seemed pretty cool. And it has a,
like a dial on the front that you can basically downscale the CPU. You know what I mean? Like,
Oh, like in the ZDSP. Exactly. Yeah. That's cool. Yeah. That's cool. Yeah. That's cool.
Yeah. That's cool. Yeah. You have to do it with, you know, CV. And it's kind of touchy. You know what
I mean? It's hard to like, and you got to go up to 30 kilohertz to get it back up to nominal pace.
Yes. Which is not a lot. I mean, outside of their own VC. Yeah. It's not how many things do that.
Yeah. Never thought about that. This has a knob right on front. Yeah. You just tweak it and all of
sudden you're, you know, bit crushing your entire affected. And you're not, you're not dedicating an
oscillator just to power this thing. Right. Another one I saw was the SSF Muton. I thought that was
kind of a sleeper. I missed that. It's kind of announced later. It's really, it's kind of simple.
It's like an eight channel VCA in like 14 HP. And it's also a cascading mixer with
mute buttons on it. Really like, I think I could get rid of a few modules, put that in,
have mute buttons on a mixer, and then be able to patch out and have eight separate VCAs.
I saw that and like CV control over the VCAs too. Yep. That and the
Mordax granular sampler though I didn't hear it. I thought like just seeing it, I was like,
oh, if that's simple, that could be interesting. I watched a demo before that. I wasn't blown away.
The screen is real nice. It seems real cool to be able to see what you're doing.
But like audio wise, it didn't seem to offer much that you can't already do.
With like clouds and looping mode or like a time safari, Mark II. Gotcha. You know what I mean?
Like it's just you can do obviously really tight grains and move throughout it and things like that.
The last thing on my list is Bitbox 2.0 firmware like destroys that Mordax module.
While it looks interesting to me that new Bitbox 2.0 stuff, like if that module had been released
with that firmware, I would still have it for sure. It's ridiculous now. You can do like multiple
loop points that you set running any direction. Like it's they fixed pretty much all the issues
that I would have had with it. Yeah, I think I've mentioned a few episodes, but I was getting
kind of leaning more and more towards getting one. And as soon as I watched that, I was like,
well, I'm sold. Yeah, I have one now. The way you can have like multiple loops within one sample
and then kind of step through those as a group sounds. That's exactly what I've been looking for.
Yeah, that's so smart. But there was one other granular thing to cut my eye and name the
qubit Nebula version two. I saw the two that I did say that. Yeah, I don't know what the
difference is a lot. It's like a mutant cloud slash morphogen now that isn't as expensive or hard to
use. Like I took some notes on that one. Did you two do? So you're gonna cheat. I actually have
notes on a different qubit. Oh, I have notes on the scanned. Also looks awesome. Okay. Yeah, the
Nebula two because I own the version one for a minute and it just kind of just didn't get into
it too much. Yeah, I mean, it wasn't what I was looking for. I ended up getting like two clouds
instead and did things that way. But can do sound on sound destructive, overdubbing,
five minute recording buffer time. And unlike the one it does, you know, the real time
processing, recording and all that, you're not just reading from the card. It's like a full
functional sampler with granular options on top. Independent pitch and speed.
That's cool. That is cool. I don't understand how it works though, because like I was looking
closely at the module. I did not see like a BPM or like clock in. So I don't understand how it's
gonna do time stretching without you telling it the parameters of the time. Maybe just pull like
pulls it apart kind of thing, like regard to your beat. He did like some audio examples of too.
It sounded great. I was like, that's pretty cool. But like, yeah, I don't understand what
magic's going on under the hood there. Or if it's just doing like an auto detect, you know what I mean?
I don't know. But either way, it's it's nice. Is that module one you can load like pure data
patches into? Yeah, and you can do it with this as well. He did mention at the end that the firmware
is open source and that you can load pure data, see sound, and super collider patches into it.
Wow. That's awesome. And like, turn it into your own thing basically. That's cool. Yeah.
So I presume even if the firmware out of the factory is like what people want,
someone's gonna fine tune it to do crazy or shit. I'm sure because it's gonna seems like a fully
capable machine. You wanted to talk to scanner? Scanned. Scanned. Is that what it's called? Yeah.
So it is a organic wavetable VCO. And this is going based on their description. It's a
uses scan synthesis to generate complex sounds. So basically there's vibrating string sort of
things. And it's based on like how much this hammer hits it gives it it's different qualities.
It kind of sounded a little bit like an elements. Yeah, as I say, it sounds kind of like physical
modeling to some degree. The sounds didn't sound like that though. It had like this like very
hyper staccata sound. It like tapered off. Yeah, that one has no screen of display too.
No, really. Just kind of rare with newer wave tables. Right. But I was intrigued by it, but
didn't know much about what was going on. I'm intrigued. I don't know if I'm gonna get it,
but it definitely caught my eye. Yeah, that's kind of helpful about the nebula. I was like,
I don't like I've been wanting, you know, granular stuff. But the fact that it's like one sound
that you're manipulating. You know, you can't layer them. Like at the same time, I could also
get a bit box and probably achieve similar stuff. Well, I mean, while we're on the topic of wave
table, we did not bring up the form a spherical wave table navigator. She's interesting because
it's like eight voice, right? It's six independent voices. Six independent voices. Whoa, they have
their own global and individual voice proactive. There's also independent LFOs that are either
independent or synced. And there's basically like a mixer section at the top that have mutes for
each of them on and off. Then there's the LFO section in the middle. And then there's the wave
table sphere selector. And the way that described it was basically, think of it as like a sphere of
wave tables. And you're controlling the beam that goes through it. Hmm. It seems like a little
abstract. And some of the sounds were a little wonky. But some of the videos, it was just like,
oh, like a one module drone machine. And like really crazy stuff, like really, really dynamic,
really changing. And you can see like, you know, there's a ton of these modulation points for it.
And as they're just feeding it with this modulation and turning mutes on and off,
some of the videos were pretty amazing, actually. I don't know how necessarily musical it is.
But as if you were looking for like a drone oscillator, that that seems like it would be
a good candidate. I think they're independent, like both proactive inputs.
So they're either independent or there's a global
vocal proactive. And that was the only complaint that I had was there was a lot of
global versus local. And it was like crazy key combinations. Yeah, I noticed that because
it seemed like there was like some sequence remote at the top. Yeah. It was like, oh, that's kind of
like weird how you got there. I don't know if I like hold this and this and yeah,
shit like that can get old. But it's how the STS is to get to a lot of the stuff.
Oh, I forgot about them like a modules. We talked about the manther. We forgot about the reveal.
I think all the new ones are well, except for the manther growl, which is obviously
the voice of the manther in euro format or like quad style. You have the quad drum, the quad
LFO, the quad envelope. And you also have the random module, which looks pretty cool.
I think Dave, you're kind of hyped on that one because it's kind of Turing machine-ish.
Oh, that was far enough for that. Yeah. Yeah.
The quad drum, I don't know if that's going to be like perhaps the heart of the future
Mr. D or something, but it's pretty cool from what I know it's purely analog.
You get a lot of control over four different kick drums, I guess. I don't think it's being
labeled just like kick drums. You can get other sounds with it, but for the most part,
it seems like it's going to be brutal for just crazy ass kicks.
Was there videos of this stuff where they actually went through each of the modules?
Not like, I remember there was like a, like not like a jam, but like,
yeah, he was basically talking. They just kind of demoed them, mentioned that there
were prototypes. Yeah, I never saw like an in-depth one. That's why I'm wondering like,
because I think they're all still very much prototypes. So I guess they don't want to
talk about it too much because it all might be changed in the near future.
Right. But yeah, it's cool that they're using the varigate for format for some more stuff.
I think it lends itself well. They have that quad envelope.
Yeah, and all the sliders. It looks nice. Yeah, it makes sense.
I like seeing the prototypes in black, which I could get the retail in black.
It's like, that looks pretty sweet. There's a sense of theme here listeners.
So Dave, yes, you have a game for us. I do have a game.
Now, full disclosure, this is Greg's idea. I was just watching videos at work.
I hate myself in like a really powerful way. So one of the ways that I emphasize that is,
I will often read YouTube comments. Yeah. And I just go home of punishment.
It is. It is. It is. It's like a masochistic act. Digital
flagellation. Yes, it is exactly that. For some reason, I thought the ones on based on them would be
bland or so, you know, sounds awesome. No, it turns out they're crazy.
So Greg came up with this idea for this game. So I'm going to read you a comment
and give you four choices for four. And you guys are going to guess what video you think it was for.
So the first one, you guys ready? I'm ready. Are you ready?
This thing is the fucking future. Unfortunately, I can't afford that future.
Hopefully in 10 years, I can pick one up used on eBay for a hundred bucks.
Was this from a video for A, the Waldorf quantum? B, the Barringer neutron?
C, the court prologue? Or D, the Udo Newman synthesizer?
Oh, God. I hope no one really wants to buy the Udo. I'm going to go with A, the quantum,
just because that thing is insanely expensive. I'm going to be the new. The new. The new.
The new. The new. The new. The. The correct answer is A, the Waldorf quantum.
Okay. Right now, this ticket price is $4,300. Yeah. That's the last one. I saw that.
That'll never drop $200 on eBay, but yeah, that's what maybe dreaming. Think of the Barringer one.
You guys ready for the next one? Oh, yeah. I really like it. By the way, I have brain damage.
Was this from a video for A, the Geiger counter pro? B, Deckard's dream? C, the
Struckle Orcel tube distortion module? Or D, the Maleko Mather? Oh, shit. This is a hard one.
See. Which one was C? The Struckle distortion. You're going with distortion? Yeah. This is tough.
I'm going to go with A, the Geiger counter pro. The correct answer was D, the Maleko Mather.
Ah, gosh, this was not someone who was not a fan. You clearly have to have brain damage to
appreciate a mono synth. I guess. Okay. All right. All right. Next question. Vinegar tits.
That's it. That's Alphan Omega in this comment. Was this from a video for A, the Empress affects
Zoya pedal? B, the Strymon Magneto delay module? C, the STG envelope generator? Or D,
Pittsburgh microvolt 3900? I'm going to go with the fucking Pittsburgh. Yeah. D, D. You are both
correct. I have no idea if that's good or bad. Vinegar tits. You know, some reason it just seems
appropriate. Like, we are wondering who would disappear to? Obviously people that like vinegar
tits. Yeah, there we go. We found the Democrats. All right. Next question. Patwell.
Wow, wow, wow. Phew. Was this from a video for A, the teenage engineering pocket operator 33?
B, the Pittsburgh microvolt 3900? C, the Strymon Magneto delay? Or D, the Korg Volka mixer?
C, would see the Strymon Magneto delay? I'll go with that Volka mixer. The correct answer is C,
the Strymon Magneto delay. And it was not a Kookoo video. This is a perfect circuit video.
How well, well, well. Phew. There's a four. Four O's a poo. For some reason that sound just in
my head was like, I can see that some someone verbally expressing what a delay is doing.
Yeah. Yeah. I don't know why. But you crawled inside to find this YouTube comment.
Joke's on you. I was actually the one making all these comments.
All right. Next question. Can we get this, but with only the Bossa Nova setting?
Was this a video for A, the Korg KR55 Pro Rhythm Machine? B, the Casio CTX700 portable keyboard?
C, the Yamaha Montage OS 2.0 update? Or D, the Korg Pro Log?
Shit. This is a hard one. Go on A.
You're going A, that's kind of what I was leaning towards too. I'm going to go with Nick A.
You guys are both correct. Yeah.
It was the Korg KR55 Pro Rhythm Machine. Hell yeah. Which we forgot to shit all over.
During our bad section. Other than that many people that just need a backing beat like that.
Like is that a real thing? It could be. I don't know.
Is there not a million things that could already handle that?
The teaser video with like the guy has one of those in one hand and it could
acoustic guitar in the other and he's like setting up in a coffee shop that looks like the one from
Friends? Yes. For real we have like fucking super computers in our pockets. You wouldn't just play
like a loopy bod or some shit. I mean that's why drum machines exist in the first place. Like
that's why all the fucking rhythm machines came out and shit was to do that. It's hard. It just
kind of blows my mind that in 2018 we needed a new one to do that. Yeah. Who knows?
Yeah. Next question. That's what the future looked like in 1998. Was this from a video for
A) the Bitwig Studio 2.3 update? B) the Alesis Vortex Wireless Keyboard Controller?
Yes. C) the Udo Newman Synthesizer Concept? Or D) the Roland Cloud TR808 and TR909 Drum Machine
VST Plugins? What? Yeah they released those. I didn't miss that. I'm going to go with B the
key to our Alesis. The correct answer is C. Damn. The Udo Newman Synthesizer Concept.
We've already spent plenty of time shitting on that. Yeah. I can see that being the future in
1998. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense. I kind of feel like we wanted that future.
At some point in time. Yeah. And we realized it kind of sucked. All right. So this is the last one.
Pretty dumb. That's it. Was this from a video for A) the Korg Volka Mix? B) the Walidorff STVC String
Synthesizer and Vogue Order? C) the Udo Newman Synthesizer Concept? Or D) the Playtime Engineering
Blitbox Children Synthesizer? I'm going to say the children's synthesizer. There's got to be some
asset out there who's going to shit talk a children's synthesizer. No, no. The correct answer is B)
the Walidorff STVC Strength Synthesizer and Vogue Order. Okay. Someone there. No. I don't think
anyone was shit talking the Blitbox Children's synthesizer. The video is for that. Actually,
everyone seemed to be just fired up for either getting it for their kid or pretending for their
kid. Yeah. Here you go. Play with the kid. Yeah. Give me that fucking thing back. That wasn't keeping
score. I'm sure you both did well. We all win. Yeah. We're all winners. And for our listeners at home,
you can get the Play at Home version on DVD and VHS next month. And the Criterion Laser
Disc Shortness. Sure. [laughs] [music]
[music]